Proposal: How to manage and triage bugs in Knative Eventing (#1060)
knative/eventing: docs/planning/bug_triage.md

# Knative Eventing Bug Triage and Management

> This document summarizes how bugs will be triaged and managed in Knative Eventing WG.

Author: Correct. Issues of "kind/bug" only.

This is a supplement to [Sprint planning](sprintplanning.md) process.

## Goal

> - Keep a low bug count. Bug count should not be consistently increasing release over release esp [priority/important-longterm](#Bug-priorities).

Reviewer: In regards of `low bug count` and `increasing release over release` we need 2 things, this could be just TODOs in this doc
1. Reference of what low bug count means, 50 bugs is low, but 200 is high? 
2. We need to track this metric in what ever form from release to release, even a sheet in docs, could be a task in the template when starting a new release.

Author: I didn't try to put a number of "low". Ideally it should be "zero" but that is not practical. I would rather focus on trend release over release to make sure to make sure the rate declines. I wanted to try this approach for a couple of releases and then set the threshold in numbers.

- Process shouldn't be taxing for a single person or the team.
- Maintain high product quality.

## Bug priorities

> - priority/critical-urgent: Bugs that need to be fixed now, and possibly cherrypicked into the most recent release. May need patch-fix.

Reviewer: maybe include the wording `regression` something that use to work now it doesn't work, meaning a potential test work is need it to close the gap.

Author: all regressions may not necessarily belong to this bucket. If we are ready to delay the features committed in the current release and fix a bug then the bug qualifies as critical-urgent.

- priority/important-soon: Bugs that need to be fixed in the next release cycle, and but do not need a patch-fix.

> - priority/important-longterm: Bugs that need to be fixed, and will be fixed in next 2-3 releases.

Reviewer: add wording that a future milestone would be assign like in 2 or 3 releases is the expected target just to start with a ball park estimate.

- priority/awaiting-more-evidence: Bugs which might need to be fixed, but need more details first.

## How to manage bugs?

- Submit new bugs anytime by creating a new issue of type “Bug”.

> - Please fill the bug template and optionally propose a priority.

Reviewer: I would not add this are the end user opening the bug might not know the priority, but the template will have the right set of questions to gather such
- This used to work in a previous release and it doesn't (ie regression)
- Is this issue a blocker and you need immediate help with a workaround until the fix is available in the next release (ie urgent)

- All new bugs will be labelled “kind/bug” as part of the template

>  Bugs will be triaged weekly (this could be modified based on incoming bugs

Reviewer: Team should not wait for the meeting if it's issues that are easy to handle.
Maybe we could add a label `triage` for issues that we need to quickly discuss in the next triage meeting, in the meeting this are the first to address and the label `triage` will remove during the meeting as they are discuss.

Author: The process doesn't stop someone from fixing a non-triaged bug. However if there are triaged and untriaged bugs then team should prioritize the bugs that are triage and marked for current release. Hence not creating any special label. If there is a new bug that is not assigned to anyone then it should be triaged.

  rate), and upon triage will be assigned a priority or closed.
- During each release/sprint planning, all priority/important-soon and some of priority/important-longterm bugs need to be accounted while commiting to new features and improvements. These will be marked with approapriate release along with the planned features.
- Bugs marked with current release always take priority over feature work in a particular release. This will help maintain a balance between code quality, bug triage bar, and incoming feature rate.

## Bug Triage

> - WG lead will form a bug triage team (TODO: Ville)

Reviewer 2: for sake of transparency as a community, choosing the bug triage team should be transparently documented similar to [ approvers and reviewers](https://github.com/knative/docs/blob/master/contributing/ROLES.md#approver)

> - There will be one bug triage champion each week to triage incoming bugs and assign them correct priority. This role will be rotated among engineers in the bug triage team.

Reviewer 3: How does bug triage and `priority/important-longterm` mapping to milestone work overlap? I don't see anything in the triage about milestone assignment.

Author: Good point. Added to Bug priorities.

> - We will have first 3-4 bug triage meetings as a weekly team meeting. This meeting will help the entire team to come to an agreement and set a bar for each priority level. WG lead will drive this meeting.

Reviewer 3: I presume this is a separate meeting among the triage team?

> - Guidelines for bug triage:

Reviewer 3: One other item which is important is to make sure that bugs which are supposed to be fixed in the next 2-3 weeks **have an assigned owner who has acknowledged ownership of the bug**.

Without this step, it's not clear what drives the actual resolution of bugs rather than simply an treadmill of tag assignments.

Author: Agree. This is where daily stand-ups help. But I think in a OSS project that becomes difficult. I'll add the content to the doc, but do you have any suggestion on how to ensure this in practice?

    - Any priority/critical-urgent bug will disrupt the current release cycle and hence need to be approved by WG lead.
    - All of priority/important-soon bugs will be part of the next release cycle.

>     - Number of bugs with priority/important-longterm need to be kept low and non-increasing, release over release. Here "long term" refers to next 2-3 release cycles. If we will not work on it in next 2-3 release cycles, then we should close the bug upon triaging.  [Remember the goal](#Goal). 

Reviewer 3: How is this assessed? Do we have any metrics on this?

If we don't have metrics on this, when will we need metrics? Are there any existing tools for this?

Reviewer 2: maybe this can be manual at the beginning with every release? dumbest idea is to have a spreadsheet with a dumb chart of bugs per release that gets updated with the number of current open bugs during release time. Not sure.

Author: I am still looking for a tool. Eric Allred is exploring some of these tools (based on our discussion few weeks back). I'll connect with him figure out how this could be tracked. I didn't define any metrics and threshold to begin with. Initially, I was thinking of just tracking number of triaged and accepted bugs release over release, but still looking for a good tool to do this.

>     - Number of bugs with priority/important-longterm need to be kept low and non-increasing, release over release. Here "long term" refers to next 2-3 release cycles. If we will not work on it in next 2-3 release cycles, then we should close the bug upon triaging.  [Remember the goal](#Goal). 

Reviewer 2: I suggest to also label the ones to be closed without fixing with a specific label (e.g. `wont-fix` or `trivial`) to have a way to filter those.

Author: @evankanderson : Could we create such a label?

Reviewer 4: created wont-fix label

>     - TODO: Update these guidelines based on learning from triage meetings.

Reviewer 3: Is it expected that the triage subteam will own and update this document with current practice, or do we expect changes to this doc to be approved by the WG lead(s)?

Author: I expect the triage subteam will own and update the document with current practice, and the WG lead would approve the changes to the doc.

> - In case of conflict, WG lead's decision will be final.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In case of conflict, final decision will be taken by WG lead.
```
